.TH GAT-CONFIG 1 "2026-06-04" "gat 0.3.0" "gat Manual"
.SH NAME
gat-config \- inspect or edit the gat configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gat config init
.RB [ \-\-force ]
.br
.B gat config path
.br
.B gat config list
.RB [ \-\-format
.IR text|json ]
.br
.B gat config get
.I <key>
.br
.B gat config set
.I <key> <value...>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manages the config file at
.IR ${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/gat/config.toml .
.TP
.B init
Write a default config file; refuses to overwrite without
.BR \-\-force .
.TP
.B path
Print the config file path.
.TP
.B list
Show every recognized key with its effective value after the file, Git config,
and environment layers are merged.
.TP
.B get <key>
Print one key's effective value; exits non-zero if unset.
.TP
.B set <key> <value>
Write a key to the config file only (never capturing a Git/env override) and
validate the value.
.SH "RECOGNIZED KEYS"
.TP
.B ticket_prefix
String; an empty value clears it.
.TP
.BR docker_compose_dir ", " docker_worktree_mount ", " docker_service
Strings.
.TP
.B verbose
Boolean
.RI ( true/false/1/0/yes/no/on/off ).
.TP
.B tmux.layout
Preset (write-only sugar that sets the geometry keys):
.IR classic ", " ai\-focus ", " editor\-focus ", " wide .
.TP
.BR tmux.left_width ", " tmux.bottom_height
Percent (0-100).
.TP
.BR tmux.shell ", " tmux.codex_cmd ", " tmux.editor_cmd
Strings.
.TP
.B tmux.focus_left
Boolean.
.SH "GIT CONFIG KEYS"
Equivalent read-only overlay keys, set with
.BR git\-config (1):
.IR gat.ticketPrefix ", " gat.dockerComposeDir ", " gat.dockerWorktreeMount ", "
.IR gat.dockerService ", " gat.tmuxLayout ", " gat.tmuxShell ", " gat.tmuxCodexCmd ", "
.IR gat.tmuxEditorCmd ", " gat.tmuxLeftWidth ", " gat.tmuxBottomHeight .
.SH TEMPLATES
Worktree templates are
.RI [ template . <name> ]
sections with
.IR copy ", " symlink ", and " run
list keys, applied by
.BR gat\-new (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
(init) Overwrite an existing config file.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " text|json"
(list) Output format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.EX
gat config init
gat config set ticket_prefix ABC
gat config set tmux.layout ai\-focus
gat config get tmux.left_width
gat config list \-\-json
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gat (1),
.BR gat\-new (1),
.BR gat\-tmux (1)
