.TH GAT-TMUX 1 "2026-06-04" "gat 0.3.0" "gat Manual"
.SH NAME
gat-tmux \- create a worktree and open an AI-ready tmux session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gat tmux
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B gat session
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B gat start
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates the worktree if needed (like
.BR gat\-new (1)),
then creates a three-pane tmux session: the AI command (default
.IR codex )
on the left, the editor (default
.IR nvim )
on the worktree root in the right-top pane, and a shell in the right-bottom
pane. Pane proportions come from the active layout. If gat is already inside
tmux, it switches the client rather than nesting. The session name folds in the
worktree description and gat records
.IR @gat_path ", " @gat_branch ", and " @gat_description
on the session.
.PP
A prompt draft file is created outside the repository under
.I ${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/gat/worktrees/<repo-key>/<ticket>/pre-prompt.md
and exported to panes as
.IR GAT_PROMPT_FILE .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-session " name"
Override the tmux session name.
.TP
.BI \-\-prompt\-file " path"
Override the prompt draft path.
.TP
.BI \-\-codex\-cmd " cmd"
Command for the AI pane (default
.IR codex ).
.TP
.BI \-\-editor\-cmd " cmd"
Editor for the prompt pane (default
.IR nvim ).
.TP
.BI \-\-layout " preset"
Layout preset:
.IR classic ", " ai\-focus ", " editor\-focus ", " wide .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-attach
Create/reuse without attaching.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print the tmux plan only (does not create the worktree).
.TP
.BI \-\-prefix " prefix" ", " \-\-no\-prefix
Ticket prefix handling.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " text|json|shell"
Output format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.EX
gat tmux 12345
gat tmux 12345 \-\-layout ai\-focus
gat tmux 12345 \-\-codex\-cmd "aider" \-\-editor\-cmd "code \-w"
gat tmux 12345 \-\-dry\-run \-\-format json
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gat (1),
.BR gat\-switch (1),
.BR gat\-sessions (1)
