.TH GAT-MERGE 1 "2026-06-04" "gat 0.3.0" "gat Manual"
.SH NAME
gat-merge \- merge a ticket branch into the default branch and clean up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gat merge
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs the merge in the primary worktree with strict safety checks, then
optionally removes the worktree, deletes the branch, and kills the tmux
session.
.PP
Safety guarantees: the target worktree must exist, be non-primary, and be clean;
the branch cannot be the base branch; the primary worktree must be clean and
already have the base branch checked out (gat refuses rather than switching
branches for you); and a merge conflict is aborted with
.B git merge \-\-abort
so the repository is left unchanged. Cleanup steps only run after a successful
merge. If the branch is already merged, the merge step is skipped but cleanup
still runs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-into " branch"
Merge into this branch (default: repository default branch).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-ff
Always create a merge commit.
.TP
.BR \-\-remove ", " \-\-rm
Remove the worktree after a successful merge.
.TP
.B \-\-delete\-branch
Remove the worktree and delete the merged branch.
.TP
.B \-\-kill\-session
Kill the worktree's tmux session after the merge.
.TP
.B \-\-cleanup
Shorthand for
.BR \-\-remove " " \-\-delete\-branch " " \-\-kill\-session .
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print the planned merge/cleanup only.
.TP
.BI \-\-prefix " prefix" ", " \-\-no\-prefix
Ticket prefix handling.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " text|json|shell"
Output format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.EX
gat merge 12345
gat merge 12345 \-\-cleanup \-\-yes
gat merge 12345 \-\-into develop \-\-no\-ff
gat merge 12345 \-\-dry\-run \-\-json
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gat (1),
.BR gat\-prune (1),
.BR gat\-rm (1)
