.TH GAT-SWITCH 1 "2026-06-04" "gat 0.3.0" "gat Manual"
.SH NAME
gat-switch \- attach to or open the worktree's tmux session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gat switch
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Resolves what to do in order: if a tmux session for the ticket is already
running, attach to it (or switch the client when already inside tmux);
otherwise, if the worktree exists, build the gat tmux layout and attach;
otherwise, fail with a message telling you to create the worktree first.
.PP
Unlike
.BR gat\-tmux (1),
.B switch
never creates a worktree. The session name folds in the worktree description
(truncated to 100 characters), and gat records
.IR @gat_path ", " @gat_branch ", and " @gat_description
options on the session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-session " name"
Override the tmux session name.
.TP
.BI \-\-prompt\-file " path"
Prompt draft path used when creating panes.
.TP
.BI \-\-codex\-cmd " cmd"
Command for the AI pane (default
.IR codex ).
.TP
.BI \-\-editor\-cmd " cmd"
Editor for the prompt pane (default
.IR nvim ).
.TP
.BI \-\-layout " preset"
Layout preset:
.IR classic ", " ai\-focus ", " editor\-focus ", " wide .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-attach
Ensure the session exists without attaching.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print the planned action only.
.TP
.BI \-\-prefix " prefix" ", " \-\-no\-prefix
Ticket prefix handling.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " text|json|shell"
Output format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.EX
gat switch 12345
gat switch 12345 \-\-dry\-run \-\-json
gat switch 12345 \-\-layout ai\-focus \-\-no\-attach
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gat (1),
.BR gat\-sessions (1),
.BR gat\-tmux (1)
