.TH GAT-NEW 1 "2026-06-04" "gat 0.3.0" "gat Manual"
.SH NAME
gat-new \- create or reuse a ticket worktree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gat
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B gat new
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B gat add
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a sibling worktree next to the primary checkout. For a repository at
.I /repos/project
and ticket
.IR TICKET\-12345 ,
the default worktree path is
.IR /repos/project\-TICKET\-12345 .
If a worktree for the branch already exists, the command is idempotent and
reports the existing worktree instead of creating a new one.
.PP
On creation, gat resolves the ticket name, picks a base ref (the resolved
.B \-\-base
or the repository default branch), creates the branch if needed, adds the
worktree, records a creation timestamp, applies a setup template if configured,
and stores a description if given. With shell integration active, it also
changes into the new worktree.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-prefix " prefix"
Prefix for numeric tickets (default
.IR TICKET ).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-prefix
Do not prefix a numeric ticket.
.TP
.BI \-\-branch " branch"
Use this branch name instead of the ticket name.
.TP
.BI \-\-base ", " \-\-from " ref"
Base ref for a new branch. Accepts
.I ^
(default branch) and
.I @
(current branch).
.TP
.BI \-\-path " path"
Override the computed worktree path.
.TP
.B \-\-detach
Create a detached worktree (no branch) for investigation.
.TP
.BI \-d ", " \-\-description " text"
Attach a description to the worktree.
.TP
.BI \-t ", " \-\-template " name"
Apply a named setup template after creation.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-template
Skip templating even if a
.I default
template exists.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print the planned action without changing anything.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " text|json|shell"
Output format.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create and switch into TICKET\-12345:
.PP
.RS
.EX
gat 12345
.EE
.RE
.PP
Custom prefix and base branch:
.PP
.RS
.EX
gat 4567 \-\-prefix ABC \-\-base develop
.EE
.RE
.PP
Explicit branch name with a description:
.PP
.RS
.EX
gat new login\-fix \-\-branch feature/login \-\-description "fix login redirect"
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gat (1),
.BR gat\-go (1),
.BR gat\-tmux (1)
