.TH GAT 1 "2026-06-04" "gat 0.3.0" "gat Manual"
.SH NAME
gat \- ticket-oriented Git worktree workflow helper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gat
.I <ticket>
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B gat
.I <command>
.RI [ args ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gat
layers a fast, opinionated command surface over native
.BR git\-worktree (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR fzf (1),
Docker Compose, and shell integration, while keeping Git as the single source
of truth. It is built around tickets: short identifiers (often bare numbers
that are automatically prefixed, for example
.I 12345
becomes
.IR TICKET\-12345 )
that name a branch and a sibling worktree.
.PP
Running
.B gat
with a bare ticket is shorthand for
.BR "gat new" .
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B new
Create or reuse a ticket worktree. Aliases:
.BR add .
See
.BR gat\-new (1).
.TP
.B go
Print or switch to an existing worktree. See
.BR gat\-go (1).
.TP
.B switch
Attach to (or open) the worktree's tmux session. See
.BR gat\-switch (1).
.TP
.B describe
Set or show a worktree description. Alias:
.BR desc .
See
.BR gat\-describe (1).
.TP
.B sessions
List live gat tmux sessions. See
.BR gat\-sessions (1).
.TP
.B ui
Interactive TUI dashboard. Alias:
.BR dashboard .
See
.BR gat\-ui (1).
.TP
.B config
Inspect or edit configuration. See
.BR gat\-config (1).
.TP
.B merge
Merge a ticket branch into the default branch and clean up. See
.BR gat\-merge (1).
.TP
.B path
Print only a worktree path. See
.BR gat\-path (1).
.TP
.B list
List registered worktrees. Alias:
.BR ls .
See
.BR gat\-list (1).
.TP
.B watch
Continuously render the worktree list. See
.BR gat\-watch (1).
.TP
.B search
Search worktrees, optionally with fzf. Alias:
.BR find .
See
.BR gat\-search (1).
.TP
.B tmux
Create a worktree and open a tmux session. Aliases:
.BR session ,
.BR start .
See
.BR gat\-tmux (1).
.TP
.B dx
Enter or run a worktree Docker container. Alias:
.BR docker .
See
.BR gat\-dx (1).
.TP
.B rm
Remove a worktree. Aliases:
.BR remove ,
.BR delete .
See
.BR gat\-rm (1).
.TP
.B archive
Move a worktree to the archive directory. See
.BR gat\-archive (1).
.TP
.B prune
Prune stale or merged worktrees. See
.BR gat\-prune (1).
.TP
.B shell\-init
Emit shell integration code. See
.BR gat\-shell\-init (1).
.TP
.B doctor
Inspect local setup. See
.BR gat\-doctor (1).
.SH "GLOBAL OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the global usage summary.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the program version.
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fItext|json|shell\fR
Select the output format for commands that support it.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
A runtime or Git failure (for example a refused unsafe operation).
.TP
.B 2
A CLI usage error (unknown option or missing argument).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GAT_TICKET_PREFIX
Default prefix for numeric tickets (default
.IR TICKET ).
.TP
.B GAT_TMUX_LAYOUT
Layout preset:
.IR classic ", " ai\-focus ", " editor\-focus ", " wide .
.TP
.B GAT_QUIET
Suppress progress lines on stderr.
.TP
.B GAT_VERBOSE ", " RUST_LOG
Enable logging.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Overrides the config root
.RI ( $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/gat ).
.PP
See
.BR gat\-config (1)
for the full list of configuration sources and keys.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/gat/config.toml
The configuration file.
.TP
.I <repo>/.git/gat-metadata.json
Per-repository worktree usage metadata.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR git\-worktree (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR fzf (1)
.PP
Full reference:
.I docs/COMMANDS.md
in the source tree.
